Expand OAuth consent and scopes docs with screenshots and developer guidance (#9164)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-ai/integrate-mcp-claude.md

import MCPRemoteServerUrl from '/snippets/_mcp-remote-server-url.md';
import MCPRemoteTokenHeaders from '/snippets/_mcp-remote-token-headers.md';

Claude is an AI assistant from Anthropic with three primary interfaces:
- [Claude (web)](https://claude.ai): The browser-based interface. Supports remote MCP via the Connectors UI — no config file needed.
- [Claude Desktop](https://claude.ai/download): A GUI with MCP support for file access and commands, plus basic coding features.
- [Claude Code](https://www.anthropic.com/claude-code): A terminal/IDE tool for development.

> All three interfaces can connect to the **remote** dbt MCP server (HTTP, no install, consumption-focused). Claude Desktop and Claude Code can also connect to the **local** dbt MCP server (runs on your machine, supports CLI commands like `dbt run`). Pick the section that matches your Claude interface, then choose local or remote.

Author: confirm

You don't need to clone the dbt-mcp repository &mdash; for local setups, install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) and run `uvx dbt-mcp` (or use the configs later in this page). Only clone the repository if you want to [contribute to dbt MCP](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-mcp/issues).

<StaticSubdomainRequired />

For OAuth (local or remote), use your [access URL with a static subdomain](/docs/platform/about-platform/access-regions-ip-addresses).

## Claude (web) {#web}

> The [Claude web app](https://claude.ai) supports remote MCP via its Connectors UI — no config file or local install required. OAuth is the only supported auth method for this interface.

Author: ```suggestion
The [Claude web app](https://claude.ai) supports remote MCP using its Connectors user interface &mdash; no config file or local install required. OAuth is the only supported auth method for this interface.
```
